Okay, I'd like to start out asking you where you
came from before you moved here. Okay,
and why did you come?
Did
you want to come down here?
Okay. And
what kind of work are you doing
right now? Various.
I'm a home builder, a real ranger. So you build a lot
of houses in Bryan? Bryan College Station. I build
a number of good places right now at Bryan College
Station. Okay,
have you ever been anything
about politics or anything? Yeah, city council.
City council? Got beat. Got beat. Oh, well. Okay.
Okay.
Can you tell me about
anything about your children? Do
they like this area, the country?
Like I said, we moved here in 1959.
You
like the people here in Fort Worth?
Oh, yeah. Period. I lived in Dallas, and that's
where I was born. I don't like the people in Dallas.
I love this part of the country. Yeah, I think I like
it. geography of the country trees and so forth i
think the small town
atmosphere though i think we're losing what do you
think uh about the changes in technology for
advancement of the city. Can you tell me about how
it's grown, how it was whenever you came here back
in 1959, and the progress that it's taken? I don't
know exactly what you mean. Technology? Any
industry?
What effects maybe the college may have had? And
businesses? Okay, when we moved to Bryan, I don't
know how much you want me to elaborate on this
stuff, but we moved to Bryan in 1959. Bryan Field
was closed in 1958. This is undoubtedly the
deadest town you've not ever been in. There was
property for rent for sale all over town, all the
sports you wanted to play for. We lived in a nice
three-bedroom house. We rented for a few months.
$75 a month. And we bought a three-bedroom,
two-bath,
new brick home for a small one, about $150,000. No
down payment. It was a case in mind. It was an
elderly family. They accepted no down payment.
They just wanted to rent it off. The next thing in
was college then. The number of students had been
the same for a year. It wasn't growing. Everybody
was scared to death with it. The economy was just
going to go to nothing because of that base load.
And about two or three years later, it started
making the change. A&M started growing a little.
The attitudes of people just seemed to change. And
right now, basically, my opinion, the Bryan
College Station is, you know, almost totally
dependent on A&M. The industry that's covered the
town has been mental for the size of town it is.
We've got two or three small industries, but A&M
is, as A&M goes, like me. Okay, how did the Bryan
College Station, did they want the
college to turn co-ed where girls can come in? I
think. Was that a big issue? uh... uh...
requirement about being in the court at the same
time? As far as I was concerned on the college, I had
no preference. I didn't go to A&M or anything like
that. Other than for business reasons. Do you
think Bryan College Station will have enough
facilities, apartments and all to fulfill All the
students? Oh, basically we'll probably build
them as fast as possible right now. It's just going
to be a matter of time before people all went to work
and I was having enough. It'll be a matter of time
before we have too many. Because I know next
semester they're turning down, all the dorms are
filled up, and they turned down 2,300 freshmen
that are coming in. I just want to know if they have
room for that 2,300. That's discretionary. No,
I'm sure that has a lot more to turn them down. They
just didn't have a place to live. But I can say that
the private sector normally reacts to these
things and overreacts. I don't think we can put any
city around. Austin's a good example of where it's
going. It's probably going to any city, a small
city in, say, Texas. And now they're way over the
other apartment houses and everything else. Let
me ask you something about your line of work and
building and all.
How come you don't build more than just two-story
complexes? Couldn't you build maybe four or
five-story complexes to hold more people? Well,
back up a bit, I'm not an apartment builder. You're
not an apartment builder? We started building
duplexes. Now, duplexes are basically houses.
And that's an hour round of thinking. We'll build a
lot of duplexes, but still each individual big
duplex will be $35,000, $70,000. There's not a $2
to $5 million project. When I say we, I'm talking
about my company. We're not going to do that kind of
thing. We're not a commercial apartment
building. And why though?
I just got into this man. Oh, you did? I've never
been in one yet. Okay. So, since you've been here
quite a while now, and you know quite a few people
around this area, you communicate with them, the
people that came in, are they just mostly
middle-income people, or do you see a lot of real
wealthy people coming into this area wanting to
live here? No, we see some, probably maybe a little
more than normal. We see upper-middle-class
people, but by far the majority is the majority of
people in this area. Again, do they end up there?
I'd say we sell...
Probably 60% of our house made more than Ph.D.
Yeah, I was going to say, I imagine a lot of these big
expensive houses are probably just... Well, not
really expensive anymore.
The small, little small houses are more
expensive. Yeah. And it takes Ph.D. almost to
afford them. If you get away from A&M, you don't
have that many management people in the private
sector. Okay. Would you tell me any relations that
you have with other families in the ground?
Do you have any relationships, any contact with
Say, for instance, the mayor and the councilman.
I know them all. You know them all? I shouldn't say I
know them all really well. I know several of them
really well. How come you don't run for city
council? I figure it out when I serve from once in a
while. Once you're a fool, twice you're stupid.
One reason I'm not living in the city of Brighton
What
was your sole purpose for
moving out of the city? Just to live out in the
country.
I had lived in the country
close to Brian, a lot closer than we are now, but I
lived and we lived in the country for six out of the
past seven years
before I run for city council. I run for city
council for one reason,
and that was that Brian, like I said, Brian, my
home, not Brian, but the college station really,
and... The growth of the area was shifted to
College Station because the city of Bryan is just
not doing enough for the value of children.
There's subdivisions and so forth across
the bypasses. And we were ready to pick the right
group of businesses. We were interested in Bryan.
Their business was Bryan. And I was talking to the
governor on that. Do
you ever see today where College Station might be
bigger than Bryan because of the college? Well, of
course the university is there and the big growth
right now is in College Station. Getting further
and further away from the university, actually,
there's many places in Bryan you can build and
develop out that's closer to A&M than, say,
Southwood Valley, where most of the dollar
stations are going now. It's a long way from A&M to
Southwood Valley. And right back, it depends on
what the fish in the city of Bryan do, to a big
extent. If they get these through streets to these
areas to open up, I think, now I don't want this
going everywhere, but I think there's two factors
that's going to affect and slow down the growth in
College Station. One is the tax base at College
Station is going to get a hold of one of these days.
And then there's the big, big, big industry there
and they pay no taxes.
These two are there for you, all the stuff you're
all staying in. So there's no tax base out there.
There's no industry out there to speak to. That and
then the Thai people that keep getting the city
government and the Thai people running out for
mayor and council and so forth at the college
station. They're highly educated people. Their
theories on city planning, development, and so
forth is, in my opinion, is all textbook. I think
the city of
Bryan officials are all waking up to some of these
needs and I think they can see what's going on real
easy right now.
So you think the
political control in College Station is kind of a
little stronger than that in Bryan? What do you
think? I think the growth in College Station up to
this point has been in spite, not because of
political control. I think political control
keeps turning over the way it is in College Station
the way it looks to me that it's going to be in the
future. You think it works?
I mean, they're going to have, we can't all get flat
or something approved. I'm not a developer.
Basically, I build houses where somebody else
will develop the land. Most of it we're developing
right now because we run out of a good place to
build. Not because we want to develop. We think,
you know, our business is house building. We need
somebody else to do the development. But I know
from talking to developers and the problems
they're having out there with...
do all
this this beautiful theory it sounds so good and
all that but when you put it in practical business
practical business someone's going to they're
not going to do anything let's say make a profit you
tie them up so they can't make a profit you know the
uh
intellectuals and so many people give the
developers hell because you know that has a
development in the country and they're ruining
the country and all this now but they didn't do it
where they all live it's true and it's not
practical they're not gonna do it if they do it
somewhere else
of course all this if if college stations politics
don't do where I think it's possible they'll do.
They don't just tie it up. I think there's a good
chance of College Station being a big city. It just
seems like
so much more money is running into the city.
I've been here for a year and they've built So many
new restaurants. Shopping centers. Shopping
centers. And I just haven't seen any new building.
Maybe a little bit, but not as much. Twice as much in
College Station as I've seen in Bryan. And if they
keep up that pace, I don't know. If they keep up that
pace, it won't take a long time to do it either. You
look at the population of two cities in 1980.
Compared to 1979, it's going to shock a lot of
people. That's
not including the students? The students who live
off that campus got to be counted.
When they talk about this population, whether you
include the students or not, or the ones who live
off the campus, I don't know how you couldn't
count. I've already heard that with the students
that do live in there already, there's around
30,000. Do you think that's true? Yeah. The
science is 17,000. There was 25,000 students in
there. 25,000. We're expecting 27,000 to 30,000
next semester. Of course, a lot of those students
do live in Brown. You know, there's one fallacy to
all of this. We all keep talking about, you know,
all the buildings going on College Station, all
the buildings going on College Station, when you
get the building permits on residences. Brian
has led College Station each one of the last two
years. You know, and all the year before that.
Where I would have thought before I read those,
each year the College Station would have been led
by Brian. You said you moved here after the Air
Force Base was closed down? Yeah, next year. So you
don't know much about
it. You want to break it down and say
it to me. You know, from
what I heard. Do you think
religion has any sort of effect? in the culture of
the city? Does it have a kind of a dominant control,
like politics might? Oh, I don't think so. I think
that Bryan is probably, you know, a pretty short
church on any community. But I don't think it has
one. There's nothing like Dallas being mostly all
baptismal. That's
what we're going to
do too. You mean to study the people out here? We're
taking a field trip. this next month in April. And I
have to plan, also besides this, I have to plan a
field trip for my plan as all the majors do.
Caldwell is one of the cities I was going to go to.
We're going to Caldwell, and from there to
Minnesota, and to Anderson, and back. And we're
going to study not only the cultural features, the
people, but also the geologic features.
study how, what geologic features might have had
an influence on people, and physical features,
and how the Brazos River might have had an impact on
the farm and irrigation, or whatever. You know,
I've been really interested, since it moved over
here, to see all our neighbors over here check.
And, you never have to take the time, and all
libraries, and so forth, somewhere I'll find a
book about it. Have
you ever talked to them and asked why they came
here? Yeah, most of them don't know. Their
grandparents, grandparents, one of them, would
come over. And the other night, most of us got our
version of history. We just don't know what
happened. I know one of the elder guys had a chance
to get on the study, but the elder guy said, get on
this place. Uh, her husband's parents
met and married on the boat one way or the other.
Just a couple days. They married on a boat? Married
on a ship. You don't
know what, oh. Yeah. Okay, um, could you tell me
your view of, um, What improvements you think need
to be made in this
area? That's a hard question. Hard question.
Financial is better than community or cultural is
better than community or what? Financial. A lot
more about that. Okay. Oh, I don't know. I think The
biggest thing, if the people at Bryan and College
Station want their cities to continue to grow like
they've done and have this dynamic growth, and
become a
city trade area, a trade center type thing. The
thing they're going to have to do is they're going
to have
to do industry. We've got to live off of that
industry so long. A&M is going to reach a
saturation point one of these days. It's going to
get so big within the idea. One of the reasons for
coming to A&M is it's going to be complex.
You know, I think people like Jack, I think Jack
Williams probably done more riding the car
station than any other one man there's been. They
can talk about the politicians and the media and
all this. What did Jack Williams do? He put A&M on
the map. Yeah. The last, what, the last five years
has done, what, 14,000, 25,000, whatever it is,
but... What kind of things did he do to pay money? I
don't think that's going to end out there. I know he
is cooperating with the business community and so
forth. I want to serve my time on the Chamber of
Commerce. And if there's anything we want any help
with. Okay, so you're saying that we need more
industry? We need some diversified industry here
instead of just A&M. I thought maybe...
Most people around here, I thought farming was an
important...
It is. But farmers here before... The farming...
Agriculture puts a lot of money into it. Brian. But
agriculture won't make Brian grow.
The farmer out here, he's well off. Brian's
$10,000. Brian's $100,000.
I think those towns go a lot easier to buy a main
street than a small one. But agriculture has a
tremendous impact
on the banks, the trade, the stores, and so forth.
But the farming's not going to grow, and it's not
going to diminish. It's going to stay pretty
static. And I imagine the size of a acreage farm in
Brazos Bottom hasn't changed enough to speak of
it. But it has a lot more impact financially.
Imagine the cost of transporting their crops to a
main market. It's pretty expensive isn't it? Or do
they do it here in Bryan? Basically, until a few
years ago, Bradson's Bottom, and that's what,
when you're talking about farming, you're
talking about Bradson's Bottom and the rest of it.
Basically, it's livestock. You know, the Tabor
community and places like this, they used to farm.
It's all livestock in that place before I come
here. Man, farming, it was all cotton. Now they
farm grain and so forth, and they don't have a place
to put it around here. They have to transport
something along the elevator. I know over out near
the one out here on Highway 21. There's a small one.
I come from a farming area in Mexico. How come they
quit producing cotton? They didn't make any
money. They didn't make any money? A lot of them
couldn't have gotten back even this year. They
went up to them.
Farming is a hard way to make a
living. Do you have any
Have you had many of your friends or relatives
around here that have moved
away? I don't have any relatives around here. No,
you know, or a few that have had better jobs off of
someone else or something, but a lot more. We know
and see basically the same people we've been
seeing for 10 or 15 years.
There
had been very few of them. And there had not been any
of them who didn't dislike the idea of having to
move to Bryan. That's true. And they moved all the
way to North Carolina and Alabama, down to Texas
Coast. That's three people I know of. One of them is
an actual officer manager. They moved over two
years. Another one was the administrator of our
hospital. We've got a bigger hospital.
Another one was a football field. And they were a
good friend. And we still see them and hear from
them and so forth. And I'll be able to keep saying
that as they get back around. That's what I was
going to ask. OK. This
coach, by the way, is a head football coach.
He's told me his dream is someday to get back to A&M.
He liked A&M that well, and he wasn't that. He was a
coach at A&M? An assistant coach at A&M.
He wants to come back and be a greatest desire to
come back. Be a head coach or just assistant? Be a
head coach. He's a head coach at Big 8 school now.
He's a pretty good show still up there. Yeah.
Imagine. Fine school and all that's fine up there
except he just said he'd never been to a place like
A&M. He graduated Alabama on the very right.